# Secure yet usable: Protecting servers and Linux containers
Secure yet usable: Protecting servers and Linux containers[https://www.researchgate.net/publication/305695750_Secure_yet_usable_Protecting_servers_and_Linux_containers](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/305695750_Secure_yet_usable_Protecting_servers_and_Linux_containers)
Cool paper, outlines some specific attacks in a bit further detail than usual (as in it names specific attack types), and it brings up a couple of points of attacks i at least didn't remember: Kernel exploits and hypervisor exploits. Things to think about if you have the time i guess. 

Execution Policy seems like a super useful tool, wonder if a fully owned K8s cluster could be set up with that kind of policy enacted. The papers own strategy slightly resembles it, but seems to function more like a loose whitelist with some alarm bells attached. The concept of training for a bit in a learning environment and then testing changes in code with a kind of A/B testing approach of adjusting current information seems sensible. 

The approach of a learning period also harkens to the various RL papers wrt. scheduling and load balancing. Would a test period for data adjustment for a linear optimization not make sense, should be possible even with synthetic loads. Currently thinking that a baseline set of 3 matrices: topological relation bias, performance relation bias (perhaps both one for need and max throughput) i.e. this service calls 3 of this other service,  computational cost/. Maybe also stuff like delay from service, or effective delay from service (fx. delay might be mitigated by sending call before the answer is needed). Then RL can be used for the mapping of matrix information to optimization. 
